okay now Robert Pate is a professor of
political science at the University of
Chicago and he's the director of the
Chicago project on security and threats
and he's joining us live now from
Chicago Robert Pape thank you very much
for being with us uh on Al jazer you
have written you've studied extensively
on the issue of coercive bombing uh what
is it and do you believe that it applies
in what we're seeing happening in Gaza
at the
moment uh yes um I've studied every
strategic Bond campaign since World War
I um and we and I've studied them not
just in terms of how bombs go on targets
but in terms of the relative intensity
of Civilian punishment and what I can
tell you is that Israel's uh bombing
campaign is one of the most intense
civilian punishment campaigns in history
already today uh after two months uh
nearly 19,000 civilians have been killed
in Gaza that's about 1%
of the two million people who live in
Gaza by that standard 1% that already
puts this uh bombing campaign in the top
one top
25% of all bombing campaigns in history
in terms of Civilian damage uh and so
what we are seeing today is not just
simply a um absolute humanitarian
catastrophe occurring we are seeing one
of the most intense civilian bombing
campaigns in history and the coercive
element I mean I I saw something you
wrote earlier in the week about the
history of attempts to get people to
switch sides by bombing them both uh in
Britain uh the Britain's the the British
uh Royal Air Force doing it to the
Germans unsuccessful in in both
instances are you saying that there is
an attempt to do that here as well that
the Israeli want people to give up
support for
Hamas well we don't actually have the
inside documents on exactly what the
thinking of the Israeli leaders are at
the moment uh however what we do know is
throughout history when we have seen
these levels of intense civilian bombing
campaigns leaders have routinely thought
that this would lead to a shattering of
the civilian morale in favor of the
enemy or it would lead to a u Rising
that would topple the enemy government
uh and this has never panned out in
history uh but it doesn't stop the
attacker from holding out hope that this
um these intense civilian bombing
campaigns will reach a point where you
break the back of Civilian support for
the enemy and what we're seeing here
just in the again the last several
months is actually the opposite of that
hope uh we are seeing the normal
coercive failure of CI intense civilian
bombing because that civilian bombing is
not leading to a loss of support for
Hamas inside of the Palestinian people
uh but we now know that support for
Hamas has tripled from 25% of
Palestinians before um uh October 7th to
now today
75% of Palestinians support Hamas and
this is unfortunately increasing support
for the terrorist group not diminishing
it and basically is a
counterproductive outcome of this
massive effort against civilians and
where does such a campaign stand in
terms of the laws of War uh I mean is
coercive bombing something that as you
say we saw in World War II and in other
conflicts does it in any way uh align
with with any laws of
war well the attackers always claim
whether it was AER Americans or the
British bombing German cities in World
War II or the Israelis today that they
have uh rules like they drop leaflets to
try to warn the civilians to uh to run
away but in fact after the conflicts
history does not remember these as
highly selective what it remembers these
bombing campaigns as is indiscriminate
and in this particular case uh what
Israel is doing is arguing that so long
as they can find any reason whatsoever
or the existence of a Hamas fighter a
Hamas leader then that in their mind
seems to justify virtually infinite
amounts of damage on the uh Palestinian
population because they're dropping
bombs that might try to kill one Hamas
fighter that pancake entire buildings or
entire neighborhoods uh killing hundreds
in the process of trying to attack one
fighter well this is something that um
uh the American Air Forces and even the
Israeli Air Forces up until now uh they
have been very very very loathed to do
because this is the very definition of
disproportionate uh indiscriminate
bombing which is why President Biden
himself is calling this indiscriminate
bombing indeed Robert P from Chicago
thank you very much for joining
us now